src/tools/execlog/README.md, before:

# Execution Log Parser

This tool is used to inspect and parse the Bazel execution logs.
To generate the execution log, run e.g.:

        bazel build \
            --execution_log_binary_file=/tmp/exec.log :hello_world

Then build the parser and run it.

        bazel build src/tools/execlog:parser
        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec.log

This will simply print the log contents to stdout in text form.

To output results to a file, use `--output_path`:

        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec.log \
            --output_path=/tmp/exec.log.txt

To limit the output to a certain runner, use `--restrict_to_runner` option.
For example,

        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec.log \
            --restrict_to_runner="linux-sandbox"

Will limit the output to those actions that were ran in the linux sandbox.


Note that because Bazel is nondeterministic, different runs of the same build
may produce logs where actions are in a different order. To achieve a more
meaningful textual diff, use the parser to convert both files at the same time:

        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec1.log \
                                           --log_path=/tmp/exec2.log \
                                           --output_path=/tmp/exec1.log.txt \
                                           --output_path=/tmp/exec2.log.txt

This will convert `/tmp/exec1.log` to text as-is, but will reorder `/tmp/exec2.log`
to match the order of actions found in `/tmp/exec1.log`. Actions are matched if
their first output is the same. Actions that are not found in `/tmp/exec1.log`
are put at the end of `/tmp/exec2.log.txt`.

Note that this reordering makes it easier to see differences using text-based
diffing tools, but may break the logical sequence of actions in
`/tmp/exec2.log.txt`.

# Execution Log Converter

This tool is used to convert between Bazel execution log formats.
Currently supported formats are `binary`, `json`, and `compact`.

For example, to convert from the binary format to the JSON format:

        bazel build src/tools/execlog:converter
        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/converter \
            --input binary:/tmp/binary.log --output json:/tmp/json.log

By default, the output will be in the same order as the input. To sort in a
deterministic order, use `--sort`.

For large log files, you might need to increase the JVM heap size. To do so,
pass a corresponding `--jvm_flag`, for example `--jvm_flag=-Xmx4g` for 4GB of heap.

Commit message:

Teach ExecLogParser how to parse all three execution log formats.
The format is auto-detected from the first few bytes of the input file.

PiperOrigin-RevId: 680915789
Change-Id: I6f1b4a2334912f25a8c41761a970e8f75265cc13

src/tools/execlog/README.md, after:

# Execution Log Parser

This tool is used to inspect and parse the Bazel execution logs. Currently
supported formats are `binary`, `json`, and `compact`.

To generate the execution log, run e.g.:

        bazel build \
            --execution_log_compact_file=/tmp/exec.log :hello_world

Then build the parser and run it:

        bazel build src/tools/execlog:parser
        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec.log

This will simply print the log contents to stdout in text form.

To output results to a file, use `--output_path`:

        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec.log \
            --output_path=/tmp/exec.log.txt

To limit the output to a certain runner, use `--restrict_to_runner` option.
For example,

        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec.log \
            --restrict_to_runner="linux-sandbox"

Will limit the output to those actions that were ran in the linux sandbox.


Note that because Bazel is nondeterministic, different runs of the same build
may produce logs where actions are in a different order. To achieve a more
meaningful textual diff, use the parser to convert both files at the same time:

        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/parser --log_path=/tmp/exec1.log \
                                           --log_path=/tmp/exec2.log \
                                           --output_path=/tmp/exec1.log.txt \
                                           --output_path=/tmp/exec2.log.txt

This will convert `/tmp/exec1.log` to text as-is, but will reorder `/tmp/exec2.log`
to match the order of actions found in `/tmp/exec1.log`. Actions are matched if
their first output is the same. Actions that are not found in `/tmp/exec1.log`
are put at the end of `/tmp/exec2.log.txt`.

Note that this reordering makes it easier to see differences using text-based
diffing tools, but may break the logical sequence of actions in
`/tmp/exec2.log.txt`.

# Execution Log Converter

This tool is used to convert between Bazel execution log formats.
Currently supported formats are `binary`, `json`, and `compact`.

For example, to convert from the binary format to the JSON format:

        bazel build src/tools/execlog:converter
        bazel-bin/src/tools/execlog/converter \
            --input binary:/tmp/binary.log --output json:/tmp/json.log

By default, the output will be in the same order as the input. To sort in a
deterministic order, use `--sort`.

For large log files, you might need to increase the JVM heap size. To do so,
pass a corresponding `--jvm_flag`, for example `--jvm_flag=-Xmx4g` for 4GB of heap.
