site/docs/tutorial/android-app.md, before:

---
layout: documentation
title: Build Tutorial - Android
---

# Introduction to Bazel: Building an Android App

In this tutorial, you will learn how to build a simple Android app using Bazel.

Bazel supports building Android apps using the [Android
rules](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/be/android.html).

This tutorial is intended for Windows, macOS and Linux users and does not
require experience with Bazel or Android app development. You do not need to
write any Android code in this tutorial.

## Prerequisites

You will need to install the following software:

* **Bazel.** To install, follow the [installation instructions](../install.md).
* **Android Studio.** To install, follow the steps to [download Android
  Studio](https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).
* (Optional) **Git.** We will use `git` to download the Android app project.

## Getting started

We will be using a basic Android app project in [Bazel's examples
repository](https://github.com/bazelbuild/examples).

This app has a single button that prints a greeting when clicked.

<img src="/assets/android_tutorial_app.png" alt="screenshot of tutorial app"
width="700">

Clone the repository with `git` (or [download the ZIP file
directly](https://github.com/bazelbuild/examples/archive/master.zip)):

``` bash
git clone git@github.com:bazelbuild/examples.git bazel-examples
cd bazel-examples/android/tutorial
```

For the rest of the tutorial, you will be executing commands in this directory.

## Review the source files

Let's take a look at the source files for the app.

```
.
├── README.md
└── src
    └── main
        ├── AndroidManifest.xml
        └── java
            └── com
                └── example
                    └── bazel
                        ├── AndroidManifest.xml
                        ├── Greeter.java
                        ├── MainActivity.java
                        └── res
                            ├── layout
                            │   └── activity_main.xml
                            └── values
                                ├── colors.xml
                                └── strings.xml
```

The key files and directories are:

| Name                    | Location                                                                                 |
| Android manifest files  | `src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` and `src/main/java/com/example/bazel/AndroidManifest.xml` |
| Android source files    | `src/main/java/com/example/bazel/MainActivity.java` and `Greeter.java`                   |
| Resource file directory | `src/main/java/com/example/bazel/res/`                                                   |

## Initialize the project's workspace

A [workspace](../build-ref.html#workspace) is a directory that contains the
source files for one or more software projects, and has a `WORKSPACE` file at
its root.

The `WORKSPACE` file may be empty or may contain references to [external
dependencies](../external.html) required to build your project.

First, run the following command to create an empty `WORKSPACE` file:

| Linux, macOS             | `touch WORKSPACE`                   |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `type nul > WORKSPACE`              |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `New-Item WORKSPACE -ItemType file` |

### Running Bazel

You can now check if Bazel is running correctly with the command:

```bash
bazel info workspace
```

If Bazel prints the path of the current directory, you're good to go! If the
`WORKSPACE` file does not exist, you may see an error message like:

```
ERROR: The 'info' command is only supported from within a workspace.
```

## Integrate with the Android SDK

Bazel needs to run the Android SDK [build
tools](https://developer.android.com/tools/revisions/build-tools.html) to build
the app. This means that you need to add some information to your `WORKSPACE`
file so that Bazel knows where to find them.

Add the following line to your `WORKSPACE` file:

```python
android_sdk_repository(name = "androidsdk")
```

This will use the Android SDK at the path referenced by the `ANDROID_HOME`
environment variable, and automatically detect the highest API level and the
latest version of build tools installed within that location.

You can set the `ANDROID_HOME` variable to the location of the Android SDK. Find
the path to the installed SDK using Android Studio's [SDK
Manager](https://developer.android.com/studio/intro/update#sdk-manager).

For example, as the default SDK path is in your home directory for Linux and
macOS, and `LOCALAPPDATA` for Windows, you can use the following commands to set
the `ANDROID_HOME` variable:

| Linux, macOS             | `export ANDROID_HOME=$HOME/Android/Sdk/`            |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `set ANDROID_HOME=%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk`       |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `$env:ANDROID_HOME="$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Android\Sdk"` |

The above commands set the variable only for the current shell session. To make
them permanent, run the following commands:

| Linux, macOS             | `echo "export ANDROID_HOME=$HOME/Android/Sdk/" >> ~/.bashrc`                                                                              |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `setx ANDROID_HOME "%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk"`                                                                                          |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('ANDROID_HOME', "$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Android\Sdk", [System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::User)` |

You can also explicitly specify the absolute path of the Android SDK,
the API level, and the version of build tools to use by including the `path`,
`api_level`, and `build_tools_version` attributes. If `api_level` and
`build_tools_version` are not specified, the `android_sdk_repository` rule will
use the respective latest version available in the SDK. You can specify any
combination of these attributes, as long as they are present in the SDK, for
example:

```python
android_sdk_repository(
    name = "androidsdk",
    path = "/path/to/Android/sdk",
    api_level = 25,
    build_tools_version = "26.0.1"
)
```

On Windows, note that the `path` attribute must use the mixed-style path, that
is, a Windows path with forward slashes:

```python
android_sdk_repository(
    name = "androidsdk",
    path = "c:/path/to/Android/sdk",
)
```

**Optional:** If you want to compile native code into your Android app, you
also need to download the [Android
NDK](https://developer.android.com/ndk/downloads/index.html)
and tell Bazel where to find it by adding the following line to your `WORKSPACE` file:

```python
android_ndk_repository(name = "androidndk")
```

Similar to `android_sdk_repository`, the path to the Android NDK is inferred
from the `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` environment variable by default. The path can also
be explicitly specified with a `path` attribute on `android_ndk_repository`.

For more information, read [Using the Android Native Development Kit with
Bazel](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/android-ndk.html).

`api_level` is the version of the Android API that the SDK and NDK
target - for example, 23 for Android 6.0 and 25 for Android 7.1. If not
explicitly set, `api_level` defaults to the highest available API level for
`android_sdk_repository` and `android_ndk_repository`.

It's not necessary to set the API levels to the same value for the SDK and NDK.
[This page](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/stable_apis.html) contains
a map from Android releases to NDK-supported API levels.

## Create a BUILD file

A [`BUILD` file](../build-ref.html#BUILD_files) describes the relationship
between a set of build outputs, like compiled Android resources from `aapt` or
class files from `javac`, and their dependencies. These dependencies may be
source files (Java, C++) in your workspace or other build outputs. `BUILD` files
are written in a language called **Starlark**.

`BUILD` files are part of a concept in Bazel known as the *package hierarchy*.
The package hierarchy is a logical structure that overlays the directory
structure in your workspace. Each [package](../build-ref.html#packages) is a
directory (and its subdirectories) that contains a related set of source files
and a `BUILD` file. The package also includes any subdirectories, excluding
those that contain their own `BUILD` file. The *package name* is the path to the
`BUILD` file relative to the `WORKSPACE`.

Note that Bazel's package hierarchy is conceptually different from the Java
package hierarchy of your Android App directory where the `BUILD` file is
located. , although the directories may be organized identically.

For the simple Android app in this tutorial, the source files in `src/main/`
comprise a single Bazel package. A more complex project may have many nested
packages.

### Add an android_library rule

A `BUILD` file contains several different types of declarations for Bazel. The
most important type is the [build rule](../build-ref.html#funcs), which tells
Bazel how to build an intermediate or final software output from a set of source
files or other dependencies.

Bazel provides two build rules, `android_library` and `android_binary`, that you
can use to build an Android app. For this tutorial, you'll first use the
[`android_library`](../be/android.html#android_library) rule to tell Bazel to
build an [Android library
module](http://developer.android.com/tools/projects/index.html#LibraryProjects)
from the app source code and resource files. You'll then use the
`android_binary` rule to tell Bazel how to build the Android application package.

Create a new `BUILD` file in the `src/main/java/com/example/bazel` directory,
and declare a new `android_library` target:

`src/main/java/com/example/bazel/BUILD`:

```python
package(
    default_visibility = ["//src:__subpackages__"],
)

android_library(
    name = "greeter_activity",
    srcs = [
        "Greeter.java",
        "MainActivity.java",
    ],
    manifest = "AndroidManifest.xml",
    resource_files = glob(["res/**"]),
)
```

The `android_library` build rule contains a set of attributes that specify the
information that Bazel needs to build a library module from the source files.
Note also that the name of the rule is `greeter_activity`. You'll reference the
rule using this name as a dependency in the `android_binary` rule.

### Add an android_binary rule

The [`android_binary`](../be/android.html#android_binary) rule builds
the Android application package (`.apk` file) for your app.

Create a new `BUILD` file in the `src/main/` directory,
and declare a new `android_binary` target:

`src/main/BUILD`:

```python
android_binary(
    name = "app",
    manifest = "AndroidManifest.xml",
    deps = ["//src/main/java/com/example/bazel:greeter_activity"],
)
```

Here, the `deps` attribute references the output of the `greeter_activity` rule
you added to the `BUILD` file above. This means that when Bazel builds the
output of this rule it checks first to see if the output of the
`greeter_activity` library rule has been built and is up-to-date. If not, Bazel
builds it and then uses that output to build the application package file.

Now, save and close the file.

## Build the app

Let's try building the app! Run the following command to build the
`android_binary` target:

```bash
bazel build //src/main:app
```

The [`build`](../user-manual.html#build) subcommand instructs Bazel to build the
target that follows. The target is specified as the name of a build rule inside
a `BUILD` file, with along with the package path relative to your workspace
directory. For this example, the target is `app` and the package path is
`//src/main/`.

Note that you can sometimes omit the package path or target name, depending on
your current working directory at the command line and the name of the target.
See [Labels](../build-ref.html#labels) in the *Bazel Concepts and Terminology*
page for more information about target labels and paths.

Bazel will start to build the sample app. During the build process, its output
will appear similar to the following:

```bash
INFO: Analysed target //src/main:app (0 packages loaded, 0 targets configured).
INFO: Found 1 target...
Target //src/main:app up-to-date:
  bazel-bin/src/main/app_deploy.jar
  bazel-bin/src/main/app_unsigned.apk
  bazel-bin/src/main/app.apk
```

## Locate the build outputs

Bazel puts the outputs of both intermediate and final build operations in a set
of per-user, per-workspace output directories. These directories are symlinked
from the following locations at the top-level of the project directory, where
the `WORKSPACE` is:

* `bazel-bin` stores binary executables and other runnable build outputs
* `bazel-genfiles` stores intermediary source files that are generated by
   Bazel rules
* `bazel-out` stores other types of build outputs

Bazel stores the Android `.apk` file generated using the `android_binary` rule
in the `bazel-bin/src/main` directory, where the subdirectory name `src/main` is
derived from the name of the Bazel package.

At a command prompt, list the contents of this directory and find the `app.apk`
file:

| Linux, macOS             | `ls bazel-bin/src/main`  |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `dir bazel-bin\src\main` |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `ls bazel-bin\src\main`  |


## Run the app

You can now deploy the app to a connected Android device or emulator from the
command line using the [`bazel
mobile-install`](../user-manual.html#mobile-install) command. This command uses
the Android Debug Bridge (`adb`) to communicate with the device. You must set up
your device to use `adb` following the instructions in [Android Debug
Bridge](http://developer.android.com/tools/help/adb.html) before deployment. You
can also choose to install the app on the Android emulator included in Android
Studio. Make sure the emulator is running before executing the command below.

Enter the following:

```bash
bazel mobile-install //src/main:app
```

Next, find and launch the "Bazel Tutorial App", which looks as follows:

<img src="/assets/android_tutorial_before.png" alt="screenshot of tutorial app" width="500">

**Congratulations! You have just installed your first Bazel-built Android app.**

Note that the `mobile-install` subcommand also supports the
[`--incremental`](../user-manual.html#mobile-install) flag that can be used to
deploy only those parts of the app that have changed since the last deployment.

It also supports the `--start_app` flag to start the app immediately upon
installing it.

## Review your work

In this tutorial, you used Bazel to build an Android app. To accomplish that,
you:

*   Set up your environment by installing Bazel and Android Studio, and
    downloading the sample project.
*   Set up a Bazel [workspace](workspace.md) that contains the source code
    for the app and a `WORKSPACE` file that identifies the top level of the
    workspace directory.
*   Updated the `WORKSPACE` file to contain references to the required
    external dependencies, like the Android SDK.
*   Created a `BUILD` file.
*   Built the app with Bazel.
*   Deployed and ran the app on an Android emulator or physical device.

## Further reading

You now know the basics of building an Android project with Bazel. Here are some
other pages to check out:

* More information on [mobile-install](mobile-install.md)
* Testing your app with [Android instrumentation tests](android-instrumentation-test.md)
* Integrating C and C++ code into your Android app with the [NDK](android-ndk.md)

Happy building!

Commit message:

Address possible failure mode when installing an app with mobile-install onto Android 9 devices.
RELNOTES: None.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 222863995

site/docs/tutorial/android-app.md, after:

---
layout: documentation
title: Build Tutorial - Android
---

# Introduction to Bazel: Building an Android App

In this tutorial, you will learn how to build a simple Android app using Bazel.

Bazel supports building Android apps using the [Android
rules](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/be/android.html).

This tutorial is intended for Windows, macOS and Linux users and does not
require experience with Bazel or Android app development. You do not need to
write any Android code in this tutorial.

## Prerequisites

You will need to install the following software:

* **Bazel.** To install, follow the [installation instructions](../install.md).
* **Android Studio.** To install, follow the steps to [download Android
  Studio](https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html).
* (Optional) **Git.** We will use `git` to download the Android app project.

## Getting started

We will be using a basic Android app project in [Bazel's examples
repository](https://github.com/bazelbuild/examples).

This app has a single button that prints a greeting when clicked.

<img src="/assets/android_tutorial_app.png" alt="screenshot of tutorial app"
width="700">

Clone the repository with `git` (or [download the ZIP file
directly](https://github.com/bazelbuild/examples/archive/master.zip)):

``` bash
git clone git@github.com:bazelbuild/examples.git bazel-examples
cd bazel-examples/android/tutorial
```

For the rest of the tutorial, you will be executing commands in this directory.

## Review the source files

Let's take a look at the source files for the app.

```
.
├── README.md
└── src
    └── main
        ├── AndroidManifest.xml
        └── java
            └── com
                └── example
                    └── bazel
                        ├── AndroidManifest.xml
                        ├── Greeter.java
                        ├── MainActivity.java
                        └── res
                            ├── layout
                            │   └── activity_main.xml
                            └── values
                                ├── colors.xml
                                └── strings.xml
```

The key files and directories are:

| Name                    | Location                                                                                 |
| Android manifest files  | `src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` and `src/main/java/com/example/bazel/AndroidManifest.xml` |
| Android source files    | `src/main/java/com/example/bazel/MainActivity.java` and `Greeter.java`                   |
| Resource file directory | `src/main/java/com/example/bazel/res/`                                                   |

## Initialize the project's workspace

A [workspace](../build-ref.html#workspace) is a directory that contains the
source files for one or more software projects, and has a `WORKSPACE` file at
its root.

The `WORKSPACE` file may be empty or may contain references to [external
dependencies](../external.html) required to build your project.

First, run the following command to create an empty `WORKSPACE` file:

| Linux, macOS             | `touch WORKSPACE`                   |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `type nul > WORKSPACE`              |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `New-Item WORKSPACE -ItemType file` |

### Running Bazel

You can now check if Bazel is running correctly with the command:

```bash
bazel info workspace
```

If Bazel prints the path of the current directory, you're good to go! If the
`WORKSPACE` file does not exist, you may see an error message like:

```
ERROR: The 'info' command is only supported from within a workspace.
```

## Integrate with the Android SDK

Bazel needs to run the Android SDK [build
tools](https://developer.android.com/tools/revisions/build-tools.html) to build
the app. This means that you need to add some information to your `WORKSPACE`
file so that Bazel knows where to find them.

Add the following line to your `WORKSPACE` file:

```python
android_sdk_repository(name = "androidsdk")
```

This will use the Android SDK at the path referenced by the `ANDROID_HOME`
environment variable, and automatically detect the highest API level and the
latest version of build tools installed within that location.

You can set the `ANDROID_HOME` variable to the location of the Android SDK. Find
the path to the installed SDK using Android Studio's [SDK
Manager](https://developer.android.com/studio/intro/update#sdk-manager).

For example, as the default SDK path is in your home directory for Linux and
macOS, and `LOCALAPPDATA` for Windows, you can use the following commands to set
the `ANDROID_HOME` variable:

| Linux, macOS             | `export ANDROID_HOME=$HOME/Android/Sdk/`            |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `set ANDROID_HOME=%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk`       |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `$env:ANDROID_HOME="$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Android\Sdk"` |

The above commands set the variable only for the current shell session. To make
them permanent, run the following commands:

| Linux, macOS             | `echo "export ANDROID_HOME=$HOME/Android/Sdk/" >> ~/.bashrc`                                                                              |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `setx ANDROID_HOME "%LOCALAPPDATA%\Android\Sdk"`                                                                                          |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('ANDROID_HOME', "$env:LOCALAPPDATA\Android\Sdk", [System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::User)` |

You can also explicitly specify the absolute path of the Android SDK,
the API level, and the version of build tools to use by including the `path`,
`api_level`, and `build_tools_version` attributes. If `api_level` and
`build_tools_version` are not specified, the `android_sdk_repository` rule will
use the respective latest version available in the SDK. You can specify any
combination of these attributes, as long as they are present in the SDK, for
example:

```python
android_sdk_repository(
    name = "androidsdk",
    path = "/path/to/Android/sdk",
    api_level = 25,
    build_tools_version = "26.0.1"
)
```

On Windows, note that the `path` attribute must use the mixed-style path, that
is, a Windows path with forward slashes:

```python
android_sdk_repository(
    name = "androidsdk",
    path = "c:/path/to/Android/sdk",
)
```

**Optional:** If you want to compile native code into your Android app, you
also need to download the [Android
NDK](https://developer.android.com/ndk/downloads/index.html)
and tell Bazel where to find it by adding the following line to your `WORKSPACE` file:

```python
android_ndk_repository(name = "androidndk")
```

Similar to `android_sdk_repository`, the path to the Android NDK is inferred
from the `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` environment variable by default. The path can also
be explicitly specified with a `path` attribute on `android_ndk_repository`.

For more information, read [Using the Android Native Development Kit with
Bazel](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/android-ndk.html).

`api_level` is the version of the Android API that the SDK and NDK
target - for example, 23 for Android 6.0 and 25 for Android 7.1. If not
explicitly set, `api_level` defaults to the highest available API level for
`android_sdk_repository` and `android_ndk_repository`.

It's not necessary to set the API levels to the same value for the SDK and NDK.
[This page](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/stable_apis.html) contains
a map from Android releases to NDK-supported API levels.

## Create a BUILD file

A [`BUILD` file](../build-ref.html#BUILD_files) describes the relationship
between a set of build outputs, like compiled Android resources from `aapt` or
class files from `javac`, and their dependencies. These dependencies may be
source files (Java, C++) in your workspace or other build outputs. `BUILD` files
are written in a language called **Starlark**.

`BUILD` files are part of a concept in Bazel known as the *package hierarchy*.
The package hierarchy is a logical structure that overlays the directory
structure in your workspace. Each [package](../build-ref.html#packages) is a
directory (and its subdirectories) that contains a related set of source files
and a `BUILD` file. The package also includes any subdirectories, excluding
those that contain their own `BUILD` file. The *package name* is the path to the
`BUILD` file relative to the `WORKSPACE`.

Note that Bazel's package hierarchy is conceptually different from the Java
package hierarchy of your Android App directory where the `BUILD` file is
located. , although the directories may be organized identically.

For the simple Android app in this tutorial, the source files in `src/main/`
comprise a single Bazel package. A more complex project may have many nested
packages.

### Add an android_library rule

A `BUILD` file contains several different types of declarations for Bazel. The
most important type is the [build rule](../build-ref.html#funcs), which tells
Bazel how to build an intermediate or final software output from a set of source
files or other dependencies.

Bazel provides two build rules, `android_library` and `android_binary`, that you
can use to build an Android app. For this tutorial, you'll first use the
[`android_library`](../be/android.html#android_library) rule to tell Bazel to
build an [Android library
module](http://developer.android.com/tools/projects/index.html#LibraryProjects)
from the app source code and resource files. You'll then use the
`android_binary` rule to tell Bazel how to build the Android application package.

Create a new `BUILD` file in the `src/main/java/com/example/bazel` directory,
and declare a new `android_library` target:

`src/main/java/com/example/bazel/BUILD`:

```python
package(
    default_visibility = ["//src:__subpackages__"],
)

android_library(
    name = "greeter_activity",
    srcs = [
        "Greeter.java",
        "MainActivity.java",
    ],
    manifest = "AndroidManifest.xml",
    resource_files = glob(["res/**"]),
)
```

The `android_library` build rule contains a set of attributes that specify the
information that Bazel needs to build a library module from the source files.
Note also that the name of the rule is `greeter_activity`. You'll reference the
rule using this name as a dependency in the `android_binary` rule.

### Add an android_binary rule

The [`android_binary`](../be/android.html#android_binary) rule builds
the Android application package (`.apk` file) for your app.

Create a new `BUILD` file in the `src/main/` directory,
and declare a new `android_binary` target:

`src/main/BUILD`:

```python
android_binary(
    name = "app",
    manifest = "AndroidManifest.xml",
    deps = ["//src/main/java/com/example/bazel:greeter_activity"],
)
```

Here, the `deps` attribute references the output of the `greeter_activity` rule
you added to the `BUILD` file above. This means that when Bazel builds the
output of this rule it checks first to see if the output of the
`greeter_activity` library rule has been built and is up-to-date. If not, Bazel
builds it and then uses that output to build the application package file.

Now, save and close the file.

## Build the app

Let's try building the app! Run the following command to build the
`android_binary` target:

```bash
bazel build //src/main:app
```

The [`build`](../user-manual.html#build) subcommand instructs Bazel to build the
target that follows. The target is specified as the name of a build rule inside
a `BUILD` file, with along with the package path relative to your workspace
directory. For this example, the target is `app` and the package path is
`//src/main/`.

Note that you can sometimes omit the package path or target name, depending on
your current working directory at the command line and the name of the target.
See [Labels](../build-ref.html#labels) in the *Bazel Concepts and Terminology*
page for more information about target labels and paths.

Bazel will start to build the sample app. During the build process, its output
will appear similar to the following:

```bash
INFO: Analysed target //src/main:app (0 packages loaded, 0 targets configured).
INFO: Found 1 target...
Target //src/main:app up-to-date:
  bazel-bin/src/main/app_deploy.jar
  bazel-bin/src/main/app_unsigned.apk
  bazel-bin/src/main/app.apk
```

## Locate the build outputs

Bazel puts the outputs of both intermediate and final build operations in a set
of per-user, per-workspace output directories. These directories are symlinked
from the following locations at the top-level of the project directory, where
the `WORKSPACE` is:

* `bazel-bin` stores binary executables and other runnable build outputs
* `bazel-genfiles` stores intermediary source files that are generated by
   Bazel rules
* `bazel-out` stores other types of build outputs

Bazel stores the Android `.apk` file generated using the `android_binary` rule
in the `bazel-bin/src/main` directory, where the subdirectory name `src/main` is
derived from the name of the Bazel package.

At a command prompt, list the contents of this directory and find the `app.apk`
file:

| Linux, macOS             | `ls bazel-bin/src/main`  |
| Windows (Command Prompt) | `dir bazel-bin\src\main` |
| Windows (PowerShell)     | `ls bazel-bin\src\main`  |


## Run the app

You can now deploy the app to a connected Android device or emulator from the
command line using the [`bazel
mobile-install`](../user-manual.html#mobile-install) command. This command uses
the Android Debug Bridge (`adb`) to communicate with the device. You must set up
your device to use `adb` following the instructions in [Android Debug
Bridge](http://developer.android.com/tools/help/adb.html) before deployment. You
can also choose to install the app on the Android emulator included in Android
Studio. Make sure the emulator is running before executing the command below.

Enter the following:

```bash
bazel mobile-install //src/main:app
```

> **Note**: `mobile-install` may not work if your device is running Android 9
> (Pie). This issue is being tracked
> [here](https://github.com/bazelbuild/examples/issues/77).
> As a workaround, use `adb install bazel-bin/src/main/app.apk` to install the
> APK on the device.

Next, find and launch the "Bazel Tutorial App", which looks as follows:

<img src="/assets/android_tutorial_before.png" alt="screenshot of tutorial app" width="500">

**Congratulations! You have just installed your first Bazel-built Android app.**

Note that the `mobile-install` subcommand also supports the
[`--incremental`](../user-manual.html#mobile-install) flag that can be used to
deploy only those parts of the app that have changed since the last deployment.

It also supports the `--start_app` flag to start the app immediately upon
installing it.

## Review your work

In this tutorial, you used Bazel to build an Android app. To accomplish that,
you:

*   Set up your environment by installing Bazel and Android Studio, and
    downloading the sample project.
*   Set up a Bazel [workspace](workspace.md) that contains the source code
    for the app and a `WORKSPACE` file that identifies the top level of the
    workspace directory.
*   Updated the `WORKSPACE` file to contain references to the required
    external dependencies, like the Android SDK.
*   Created a `BUILD` file.
*   Built the app with Bazel.
*   Deployed and ran the app on an Android emulator or physical device.

## Further reading

You now know the basics of building an Android project with Bazel. Here are some
other pages to check out:

* More information on [mobile-install](mobile-install.md)
* Testing your app with [Android instrumentation tests](android-instrumentation-test.md)
* Integrating C and C++ code into your Android app with the [NDK](android-ndk.md)

Happy building!
